# Description of Species
Human fungal pathogens are lethal infectious agents, particularly in immunocompromised individuals **(One Health, 2017)**. _Aspergillus fumigatus_ is a major cause of invasive aspergillosis with mortality rates reaching up to 90% **(Xu, 2022)**. Due to its prevalence, adaptability, and resistance, the World Health Organization classified _A. fumigatus_ as a “Critical Priority” pathogen **(Fan et al. 2021)**. Its small spores enable deep lung penetration, while thermotolerance, toxin production, and diverse metabolites drive pathogenicity **(Dagenais & Keller, 2009; Christians et al. 2011)**. Treatment relies on triazoles, which target synthesis of a fungal cell membrane component called ergosterol, but resistance is rising globally. Although triazole resistance mechanisms are relatively well characterized, those underlying amphotericin B (AMB) resistance remain poorly understood. AMB targets ergosterol in the cell membrane directly and triazole-resistant strains may be susceptible to AMB treatment. Further, the genetic bases of virulence and thermotolerance are only beginning to be explored **(Chowdhary et al. 2017; Verweij et al. 2016; Sen et al. 2024)**. Climate change may further promote the spread of resistant, thermotolerant strains, which allows _A. fumigatus_ to thrive and adapt at human body temperatures and warmer environments which increase the likelihood of human exposure **(Bhabhra & Askew, 2005; Korfanty et al. 2023; Fabri et al. 2021)**. While traits such as antifungal resistance, virulence, and thermotolerance have been studied individually, little is known about how genetic variation and trait interactions shape pathogenicity in _A. fumigatus_. Prior genetic mapping in _A. fumigatus_ has been restricted to single crosses and single traits, limiting resolution of complex inheritance patterns **(Auxier et al. 2023)**. 

# Description of my Dataset
My dataset consists of five sexual crosses of _A. fumigatus_ along with quantitative data on their antifungal susceptibilities, biofilm formation, hemolysin production, and growth at four different temperatures. Each cross is biparental with ~100 F1 progeny per cross. The data are calculated means from triplicates which have also been standardized based on each respective phenotype. I will be analyzing the "Af_J57xP20.csv" file as a biparental cross for 'Assignment 1'. The data in this file includes: **Strain, triazole types, antifungal minimum inhibtiory concentrations (ug/ml), antifungal growth optical density (OD) values at different antifungal concentrations, hemolysin production taken as zone of clearance/colony diameter (cm) across 72h, biofilm formation (OD), growth (OD) across four different temperatures (15, 22, 35, 41) across 72h, and area under the curve (AUC) for the different temperatures between 24h and 48h.** Majority of this data is quantitative and the overall goal of my project is to **identify quantitative trait loci assoicated with these traits.**

# Questions I Hope to Answer
- Are there fitness tradeoffs between triazole resistant strains compared to susceptible strains?
- Do resistant and susceptible strains cluster based on associated traits?

JD: Didn't mention that your assignment 1 seemed fine although went beyond what we meant to ask for. Grade: 2/3

# What my Assignment2_Cleandata.R Script Does
This script takes "Af_CrossData.csv" and converts some of my minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) columns to characters so that I can obtain their frequencies. I also assign data as either "Progeny" or "Parent" based on values found in the "Strain" column of the dataset. This file can be found from the main branch and should be run from here as well.

# What my Assignment2_readRDS.R Script Does
This script takes the clean dataset and subsets columns into desired dataframes. I create histograms to compare distributions among biofilm formation between the different biparental crosses. I also attempt to fit a model to answer the question if triazole resistant strains experience a tradeoff at sub-MIC levels compared to triazole susceptible strains. This file can be found from the main branch and should be run from here as well.

# Assignment 3
For my first ggplot, I plotted a beeswarm showing mean optical density across different drug concentrations (ug/ml) for three antifungals. The data was subsetted to only include data points from a biparental cross of interest (both parents are divergent in their triazole antifungal phenotypes). I chose a beeswarm because I really wanted to emphasize the quantitiative variation among each strain especially when they have the same MIC value. Compared to a boxplot, here you can see each individual raw data point rather than their overall distributions within each concentration and antifungal. For the basis of these choices I really considered the Cleveland hierarchy (having different antifungals along a copmmon scale). The plot can be found in [OD_cross4_beeswarm.png](OD_cross4_beeswarm.png).

For my second ggplot, I attempted to visualize a reaction norm plot for temperature growth data within the same cross. Each line represents an individual strain and the color represents the triazole phenotype. My goal was to identify any visual differences between susceptible versus resistant strains when they are grown at different temperatures. Again, I also wanted to emphasize the variation among OD values within a biparental cross which holds great power in linkage mapping. Here, I considered the proximity of comparions as all points are relatively comparable to each other. The plot can be found in [Temp_cross4_rxnnorm.png](Temp_cross4_rxnnorm.png).
